[Music]
now meet a gentle giant
she's not waiting to get pregnant she's
waiting to give birth
this is bihan a one and a half ton
indian rhino at whitsnaid zoo
she may look intimidating but bihan is a
sweetie
it's hard to imagine that recently this
big girl's actually been putting
on weight she's expecting a baby
and she's been pregnant for almost a
year and a half
at birth behan's baby will weigh as much
as a
fully grown man q veronica
her adoring and very patient keeper
veronica has known behan since she was a
baby she came to whip snade as a
one-year-old calf
and veronica has been a constant
companion for 13 years
yeah she always likes to know what's
going on and if there's anything
happening around the area
she'll always be up there trying to see
what see what it is
but she's very friendly very friendly
there's such a strong relationship
between them
it's no wonder that veronica is
concerned about mum and baby
it's been a 16-month wait and there are
no guarantees
it is nerve-wracking but very exciting
at the same time
you never can be 100 sure as with all
animals
they're very unpredictable some of them
can have them very quickly
and some of them have a very long labour
infidelity
hello indian rhinos have been around for
some 10
million years but hunters relentlessly
shot them for
sport in such numbers they were very
nearly extinct by 1900
and now although protected by park
rangers
they're targeted by poachers for their
horns
over 70 percent of the entire world
population is in one park in india
and if that park got hit by disease
flooding civil war
it could be disastrous and if that
happened
captive-bred rhinos like behan's baby
could offer a crucial safety net
there's a lot at stake and nothing is
being left a chance
beehan is monitored night and day by
cctv
so veronica can keep watch without
disturbing her
very often if animals know that they're
being watched it will inhibit their
birth
and it means we know we can always be on
hand
should the need arise for us to go in
and assist her for
whatever reason but then it's just nice
to
be able to be there as well to to
actually watch the birth
so now the end game begins
behan's baby will be just the third
indian rhino born in captivity this year
and right now there's nothing veronica
can do but
[Music]
wait
[Applause]
you